So once you have a data science team, you
need to think about how that team is going
to interact with other teams
within your organization.
So there a few different modes
under which that can happen,
and I'm just gonna talk
about each one of them and
how the data science team interacts
with outside people in that role.
So the first one I wanted to
talk about was consulting.
So consulting is an opportunity for
your team to collaborate with other
people where they come to you.
So they bring problems from outside
that they want to have solved,
whether it's maybe predicting how many
people will come to a certain website, or
identifying how many people
will click on an ad.
Or any other kind of problem that's based
in something that they're working on that
they think machine learning,
or prediction, or
inference would help them out with.
So that's a consulting model
where they sort of come to you.
Another option is that you
can have collaboration.
So in collaboration, the data science
team will work sort of closely
hand in hand with one of your teams
to sort of build out a whole project.
And so in that case, it might be long-term
in the sense that you might have one
data scientist working with one external
team, say, the marketing team, for
a long period of time, or with one
collaborator for a long period of time.
And in that case, you often build
a sort of a deeper knowledge of
the exact function,
a role of that external person,
and so that can often help
in the data science process.
When you're talking about just a
consulting relationship, you only get sort
of a superficial idea about what's
the problem it is that you're solving.
And so
data science can still be useful, but
it really doesn't have that deep dive
effect where the person actually
has expertise in the area
that they're working on.
Another way that the data science team can
interact with the outside community at
your organization is through teaching.
So almost all data science organizations
can play a useful role by educating other
people about what data science is,
what data science can be used for.
How that team can actually
help benefit all the different
teams within the organization or
the other collaborative groups
within the organization.
And so a teaching role for a data science
unit is always a very helpful component.
And so one way to do that is to organize
one-off events where you have a particular
idea that's taught, say, how to visualize
data or how to interact with data.
Another is to have sort of a standing
teaching commitment where you have a sort
of a boot camp for people that come in.
How does data science help them?
So finally, you can have a data science
team be creative and propose new ideas and
actually move the organization forward.
So there's an idea that
you could be data-driven,
in a sense that you can go out and
collect data, and
make all of your decisions based on the
data wisdom that you collect from those.
But that actually falls a little
short of being able really make
transformative changes based on data.
In order to make transformative changes
with data, you need to propose new
hypotheses and then test those hypotheses
and see if they actually work.
So it might be creating a new product and
then running experiments to
see if that product works.
Or might be predicting consumer behavior
or any kind of behavior that you're
interested in, based on machine learning,
in a new way, in a new application.
Those sorts of creative ideas can
often come from the data science team,
particularly if they're involved in those
sort of close collaborative relationships
where they really understand what's
the problem we're trying to solve.
And maybe they have a new idea or
some new data that they can go collect,
either within your organization or
externally, to answer that question.
And so it's always great to give your
data science team a little bit of freedom
to be creative and
to come up with their own ideas.